docs/README.developerguide.rst, before:

FAUCET developer guide
----------------------

This file contains an overview of architecture, coding design/practices,
testing and style.

Before submitting a PR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  All unit tests must pass (please use the docker based tests; see
   README.docker.md).
-  It is strongly recommended to enable TravisCI testing on your
   repo. This enables the maintainers to quickly verify that your
   changes pass all tests in a pristine environment.
-  You must add a test if FAUCET's functionality changes (ie. a new
   feature, or correcting a bug).
-  pylint must show no new errors or warnings.
-  Code must conform to the style guide (see below).

Code style
~~~~~~~~~~

Please use the coding style documented at
http://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html. Existing code not using
this style will be incrementally migrated to comply with it. New code
should comply.

Makefile
~~~~~~~~

Makefile is provided at the top level of the directory.  Output of ``make``
is normally stored in ``dist`` directory. The following are the targets that
can be used:

 - **uml**: Uses ``pyreverse`` to provide code class diagrams.
 - **dot**: Uses ``dot`` to provide hirearchical representation of ``faucet.yaml`` based on ``docs/images/faucet-yaml.dot`` file
 - **codefmt**: Provides command line usage to "Code Style" the Python file
 - **codeerrors**: Uses ``pylint`` on all Python files to generate a code error report and is placed in ``dist`` directory.
 - **stats**: Provides a list of all commits since the last release tag.

To *directly install* faucet from the cloned git repo, you could use ``sudo python setup.py install`` command from the root of the directory.

To *build pip installable package*, you could use ``python setup.py sdist`` command from the root of the directory.

To *remove* any temporarily created directories and files, you could use ``rm -rf dist *egg-info`` command.


Key architectural concepts/assumptions:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FAUCET's architecture depends on key assumptions, which must be kept in
mind at all times.

-  FAUCET is the only controller for the switch, that can add or remove
   flows.
-  All supported dataplanes must implement OpenFlow functionally
   (hardware, software or both) identically. No TTP or switch specific
   drivers.

In addition:

-  FAUCET provisions default deny flows (all traffic not explicitly
   programmed is dropped).
-  Use of packet in is minimized.

FAUCET depends upon these assumptions to guarantee that the switch is
always in a known and consistent state, which in turn is required to
support high availability (FAUCET provides high availability, through
multiple FAUCET controllers using the same version of configuration -
any FAUCET can give the switch a consistent response - no state sharing
between controllers is required). The FAUCET user can program customized
flows to be added to the switch using FAUCET ACLs (see below).

FAUCET also programs the dataplane to do flooding (where configured).
This minimizes the use of packet in. This is necessary to reduce
competition between essential control plane messages (adding and
removing flows), and traffic from the dataplane on the limited bandwidth
OpenFlow control channel. Unconstrained packet in messages impact the
switch CPU, may overwhelm the OpenFlow control channel, and will expose
the FAUCET controller to unvalidated dataplane packets, all of which are
security and reliability concerns. In future versions, packet in will be
eliminated altogether. The FAUCET user is expected to use policy based
forwarding (eg ACLs that redirect traffic of interest to high
performance dataplane ports for NFV offload), not packet in.

FAUCET requires all supported dataplanes to implement OpenFlow
(specifically, a subset of OpenFlow 1.3) in a functionally identical
way. This means that there is no switch-specific driver layer - the
exact same messages are sent, whether the switch is OVS or hardware.
While this does prevent some earlier generation OpenFlow switches from
being supported, commercially available current hardware does not have
as many restrictions, and eliminating the need for a switch-specific (or
TTP) layer greatly reduces implementation complexity and increases
controller programmer productivity.

Commit message:

add release target to docs

docs/README.developerguide.rst, after:

FAUCET developer guide
----------------------

This file contains an overview of architecture, coding design/practices,
testing and style.

Before submitting a PR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  All unit tests must pass (please use the docker based tests; see
   README.docker.md).
-  It is strongly recommended to enable TravisCI testing on your
   repo. This enables the maintainers to quickly verify that your
   changes pass all tests in a pristine environment.
-  You must add a test if FAUCET's functionality changes (ie. a new
   feature, or correcting a bug).
-  pylint must show no new errors or warnings.
-  Code must conform to the style guide (see below).

Code style
~~~~~~~~~~

Please use the coding style documented at
http://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html. Existing code not using
this style will be incrementally migrated to comply with it. New code
should comply.

Makefile
~~~~~~~~

Makefile is provided at the top level of the directory.  Output of ``make``
is normally stored in ``dist`` directory. The following are the targets that
can be used:

 - **uml**: Uses ``pyreverse`` to provide code class diagrams.
 - **dot**: Uses ``dot`` to provide hirearchical representation of ``faucet.yaml`` based on ``docs/images/faucet-yaml.dot`` file
 - **codefmt**: Provides command line usage to "Code Style" the Python file
 - **codeerrors**: Uses ``pylint`` on all Python files to generate a code error report and is placed in ``dist`` directory.
 - **stats**: Provides a list of all commits since the last release tag.
 - **release**: Used for releasing FAUCET to the next version, Requires ``version`` and ``next_version`` variables.

To *directly install* faucet from the cloned git repo, you could use ``sudo python setup.py install`` command from the root of the directory.

To *build pip installable package*, you could use ``python setup.py sdist`` command from the root of the directory.

To *remove* any temporarily created directories and files, you could use ``rm -rf dist *egg-info`` command.


Key architectural concepts/assumptions:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FAUCET's architecture depends on key assumptions, which must be kept in
mind at all times.

-  FAUCET is the only controller for the switch, that can add or remove
   flows.
-  All supported dataplanes must implement OpenFlow functionally
   (hardware, software or both) identically. No TTP or switch specific
   drivers.

In addition:

-  FAUCET provisions default deny flows (all traffic not explicitly
   programmed is dropped).
-  Use of packet in is minimized.

FAUCET depends upon these assumptions to guarantee that the switch is
always in a known and consistent state, which in turn is required to
support high availability (FAUCET provides high availability, through
multiple FAUCET controllers using the same version of configuration -
any FAUCET can give the switch a consistent response - no state sharing
between controllers is required). The FAUCET user can program customized
flows to be added to the switch using FAUCET ACLs (see below).

FAUCET also programs the dataplane to do flooding (where configured).
This minimizes the use of packet in. This is necessary to reduce
competition between essential control plane messages (adding and
removing flows), and traffic from the dataplane on the limited bandwidth
OpenFlow control channel. Unconstrained packet in messages impact the
switch CPU, may overwhelm the OpenFlow control channel, and will expose
the FAUCET controller to unvalidated dataplane packets, all of which are
security and reliability concerns. In future versions, packet in will be
eliminated altogether. The FAUCET user is expected to use policy based
forwarding (eg ACLs that redirect traffic of interest to high
performance dataplane ports for NFV offload), not packet in.

FAUCET requires all supported dataplanes to implement OpenFlow
(specifically, a subset of OpenFlow 1.3) in a functionally identical
way. This means that there is no switch-specific driver layer - the
exact same messages are sent, whether the switch is OVS or hardware.
While this does prevent some earlier generation OpenFlow switches from
being supported, commercially available current hardware does not have
as many restrictions, and eliminating the need for a switch-specific (or
TTP) layer greatly reduces implementation complexity and increases
controller programmer productivity.
